Hi there.
This is the Manila Room.
And welcome back.
Let's now see how we can install Java on a mac operating system.
So the first thing I want to do is I want to open the terminal.
So just go here in the finder.
Go.
Here you have the go menu item.
So just click on that and click on utilities.
So this is how you would open the terminal.
So here, let's just type in Java C, Java C is a Java compiler and it is hyphen version.
So this is to see if Java has been already installed on this machine.
So it says that there is no Java here, so we need to install it.
You can either do Java C hyphen version where Java C, as I said, is the Java compiler, or you can
do Java hyphen version two and Java is the Java interpreter itself.
So that's what you would use if you want to run a Java program.
So even for this, it says that Java is not installed, so we can use either of these two commands.
So there is a hyphen conversion.
So let's go ahead and install Java on this machine.
So let's open the browser.
So I have already done that.
And here just Google for JDK download and the first link is the Oracle website and it shows all the
downloads.
So let's just click this one.
So here are the downloads.
So the latest version as of now is Java ten.
So you might see some other version.
So at the time of this recording, it's Java ten.
So if you see some other version, just go ahead and install that particular version.
Most of the programs have been have been tested using Java eight.
So you can also install Java eight.
Java eight is here.
But I would suggest you can just go ahead and install the latest version.
So here we have JDC and Jerry's.
Since we'll be developing the Java programs, we need to install a JDC so we cannot install Jerry.
If you install Jerry, we cannot develop Java programs.
In order to develop Java programs, we do need the Java development kit.
So let's go ahead and click here on Download.
And in this page.
So here we are.
First thing is you need to accept the license agreement and you need to click here.
This is the link for Mac operating system, so you need to click on this particular link in order to
install Java.
So you would get the the software would be downloaded the installer.
So I have already done that.
So just click on the the DMG file here on the link and it's already downloaded on my machine.
So I'm just going to double click this thing.
And it's a very simple process.
Installing Java on a mac operating system is a very simple process.
So here on this pop up, just click on this icon here.
Okay.
And click continue.
Say install.
You need to enter the password.
Say install software.
Installed, succeeded.
And it says, do you want to move the the JDK 10.1 installer to the trash.
So you can also do that move to the trash.
And that's it.
It has been installed.
Now let's go back to our.
Let me also minimize this.
To the terminal.
And let's now say.
That's it.
So the Java ten version has been installed.
So that's about it.
Now, if you want to uninstall this Java, then what you can do is.
He's here and the go.
Go to folder.
Here you have slash library.
Just type in Java.
So if you do that here we have these folders, Java, virtual machines, and here it is.
So if you want to uninstall it, just right, click on this and move it to trash.
And with that, it will be uninstalled.
So that's about it.
We have learned how to install Java on a mac operating system.
Thank you.